Add new blog post for OTel Q&A - May (#2812)
open-telemetry/opentelemetry.io: content/en/blog/2023/end-user-q-and-a-03.md

---
title: 'End-User Q&A Series: Using OTel at Farfetch'
linkTitle: 'End-User Q&A: OTel at Farfetch'
date: 2023-06-01
author: '[Adriana Villela](https://github.com/avillela) (Lightstep)'
body_class: otel-with-contributions-from
---

With contributions from [Rynn Mancuso](https://github.com/musingvirtual)
(Honeycomb) and [Reese Lee](https://github.com/reese-lee) (New Relic).

On Thursday, May 25th, 2023, the OpenTelemetry (OTel) End User Working Group
hosted its third
[End User Q&A session](/community/end-user/interviews-feedback/) of 2023. We had
a bit of a gap due to KubeCon Europe, but now we’re back! This series is a
monthly casual discussion with a team using OpenTelemetry in production. The
goal is to learn more about their environment, their successes, and the
challenges that they face, and to share it with the community, so that together,
we can help make OpenTelemetry awesome!

This month, I spoke with
[Iris Dyrmishi](https://www.linkedin.com/in/iris-dyrmishi-b15a9a164/), Platform
Engineer at [Farfetch](https://www.farfetch.com).

## Overview

> Iris is a huge fan of Observability and OpenTelemetry, and her love of these two

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Iris is a huge fan of [observability](/docs/concepts/observability-primer/) and OpenTelemetry, and her love of these two
```

including Jaeger and Prometheus.

Due to the enthusiasm, drive, and push that Iris and one of her co-workers, an
architect at Farfetch, made for OpenTelemetry, Iris was proud to share that they
are now using OpenTelemetry in production.

### How long did it take your team to get OpenTelemetry in production?

Iris and her team planned to start using OpenTelemetry in January 2023. This
included initial investigation and information-gathering. By mid-March, they had
their first pieces in production.

They are not fully there yet:

- There is still a lot of reliance on Prometheus and Jaeger for generating
  metrics and traces, respectively
- Not all applications have been instrumented with OpenTelemetry

In spite of that, Iris and her team are leveraging the power of the
[OpenTelemetry Collector](/docs/collector/) to gather and send metrics and
traces to various Observability back-ends. Since she and her team started using
OpenTelemetery, they started instrumenting more traces. In fact, with their
current setup, Iris has happily reported that they went from processing 1,000
spans per second, to processing 40,000 spans per second!

### How are you collecting your traces right now?

> Traces are being collected through a combination of manual and auto
> instrumentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Traces are being collected through a combination of [manual and auto
instrumentation](/docs/concepts/instrumenting/).
```

Some applications are being manually instrumented through OpenTelemetry, and

> others are still being instrumented using OpenTracing,
> [which is backwards-compatible with OpenTelemetry](/docs/migration/opentracing/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
others are still instrumented using the [legacy OpenTracing
[using shims](/docs/migration/opentracing/).
```

The OpenTelemetry Operator is being implemented to auto-instrument Java and .NET

> code. The OTel Operator ([among other things](/docs/k8s-operator/#introduction))
> [supports injecting and configuring auto-instrumentation in .NET, Java, Python, and Node.js](/docs/k8s-operator/automatic/#configure-autoinstrumentation).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
code. Among other things, the [OTel Operator](/docs/k8s-operator/)
supports injecting and [configuring auto-instrumentation](/docs/k8s-operator/automatic/#configure-autoinstrumentation) in .NET, Java, Python, and Node.js.
```

Iris hopes that Go auto-instrumentation will be available in the near-future.

> See [here](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-go-instrumentation)
> for more on the progress of auto-instrumentation in Go.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To track progress of auto-instrumentation in Go, see [OpenTelemetry Go Automatic Instrumentation](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-go-instrumentation).
```

Although this will be a lengthy and time-consuming process, the team’s goal is
to have all applications instrumented using OpenTelemetry.

### What kind of support does your team provide for manual instrumentation?

By design, Iris and her team don’t instrument other teams’ code. Instead, they
provide documentation and guidelines on manual instrumentation, and refer teams
to the OpenTelemetry docs where applicable. They also have sessions with
engineers to show them best practices around instrumenting their own code. It’s
a team sport!

### Can you share your experience around using the OTel Operator?

The OTel Operator is only partially used in production, and is currently not
available for everyone. Iris and her team really love the OTel Operator;
however, it did take a bit of getting used to. Iris and her team found that
there is a tight coupling between [cert-manager](https://cert-manager.io/) and
the OTel Operator. They were not able to use our own custom certificates, and
they did not support [cert-manager](https://cert-manager.io/) in their clusters,
so they found it hard to use the Operator in our clusters.

> [They solved this by submitting a PR](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-helm-charts/pull/760)!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
They solved this by submitting a PR -- [opentelemetry-helm-charts PR #760](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-helm-charts/pull/760)!
```

One of the things she loves about OpenTelemetry was that, when she was trying to
troubleshoot an issue whereby Prometheus was not sending metrics to the
Collector, and was therefore not able to create alerts from it. Then a colleague
suggested using OpenTelemetry to troubleshoot OpenTelemetry.

### Have you or anyone on your team or at Farfetch started playing with OTel Logging?

Iris has played around a bit with OTel [logging](/docs/concepts/signals/logs/),
mostly consuming logs from a
[Kafka topic](https://developer.confluent.io/learn-kafka/apache-kafka/topics/).
This experiment has not included
[log correlation](/docs/specs/otel/logs/#log-correlation), but it is something
that Iris would like to explore further.

Since logs are not yet stable, Iris doesn’t expect logging to go into production
at Farfetch just yet. Farfetch has a huge volume of logs (more than traces), so
they don’t want to start converting to OTel logging until things are more
stable.

> > **_NOTE:
> > [Some parts of OTel logs are currently stable](/docs/specs/status/#logging)_**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note**: some parts of OTel logs are stable. For details, see [Specification Status Summary](/docs/specs/status/#logging).
```

Consul to get the targets and the ports where to scrape them. The
[Receiver’s scrape configs](https://github.com/prometheus/prometheus/blob/v2.28.1/docs/configuration/configuration.md#scrape_config)
are the same as in Prometheus, so it was relatively easy to move from Prometheus
to the Prometheus Receiver (lift and shift).

They also plan to collect OTLP metrics from Kubernetes. This is facilitated by
the Prometheus Receiver’s support for the
[OTel Operator’s Target Allocator](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-operator#target-allocator).

Prometheus is also still currently used for metrics collection in other areas,
and will probably remain this way, especially when collecting metrics from
virtual machines.

### How many Kubenetes clusters are you observing?

There are 100 Kubernetes clusters being observed, and thousands of virtual
machines. Iris and her team are responsible for managing the OTel Operator
across all of these clusters, and are therefore also trained in Kubernetes, so
that they can maintain their stack on the clusters.

### Have you dabbled in any of the OTel experimental features in Kubernetes?

> > **_NOTE: This question is referring to the ability for Kubernetes components
> > to emit OTLP traces which can then be consumed by the OTel Collector. More
> > info can be found
> > [here](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/cluster-administration/system-traces/).
> > This feature is currently in beta, and was first introduced in Kubernetes 1.25
> > (release notes [here](https://sysdig.com/blog/kubernetes-1-25-whats-new/))._**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> This question is referring to the ability for Kubernetes components to emit
> OTLP traces which can then be consumed by the OTel Collector. For more info,
> see
> [Traces For Kubernetes System Components](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/cluster-administration/system-traces/).
> This feature is currently in beta, and was first introduced in
> [Kubernetes 1.25](https://sysdig.com/blog/kubernetes-1-25-whats-new/).
```

effectively. Farfetch relies heavily on auto-scaling, so one of the first things
that the team did was to enable auto-scaling for the Collectors, and tweak
settings to make sure that it could handle large amounts of data.

The team also leaned heavily on
[OTel Helm charts](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-helm-charts/tree/main/charts),
and on the OTel Community for additional support.

Are you currently using any processors on the OTel Collector? \
The team is currently experimenting with processors, namely for data masking ([transform processor](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/processor/transformprocessor),
or [redaction processor](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/processor/redactionprocessor)),
especially as they move to using OTel Logs, which will contain sensitive data that
they won’t want to transmit to their Observability back-end. They currently, however,
are only using the [batch processor](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/processor/batchprocessor/README.md).

### Are you aware of any teams using span events?

> > **_NOTE: A span event provides additional point-in-time information in a
> > trace. It’s basically a structured log within a span. For more on span events,
> > check out docs [here](/docs/concepts/signals/traces/#span-events)._**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> A [span event](/docs/concepts/signals/traces/#span-events) provides
> additional point-in-time information in a trace. It’s basically a structured
> log within a span.
```

keeping a close eye on things.

The team is also focusing its attention on data quality and volume of logs,
which means researching log processors to see which ones suit their needs.
Ultimately, they will publish a set of guidelines for development teams to
follow, and evangelize practices within the company.

## Feedback

Iris and her team have had a very positive experience with OpenTelemetry and the
OpenTelemetry community.

### Documentation

Iris shared that the docs at times are not as clear as they could be, requiring
some extra digging on the part of the engineer, to understand how a certain
component works or is supposed to be configured. For example, she had a hard
time finding documentation on
[Consul SD configuration](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/configuration/configuration/)
for OpenTelemetry. That being said, Iris is hoping to contribute back to docs to
help improve them.

### Turnaround time on PRs

Iris and her team were pleasantly surprised by the quick turnaround time on
getting their
[OTel Operator PR](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-helm-charts/pull/760)
approved and merged.

## Additional Resources

> If you’d like to see my conversation with Iris in full, you can check out the
> video [here](https://youtu.be/9iaGG-YZw5I).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
My conversation with Iris, in full, is [available on YouTube](https://youtu.be/9iaGG-YZw5I).
```

> If anyone would like to continue the conversation with Iris, please reach out to
> her in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If anyone would like to continue the conversation with Iris, reach out to
her in the
```

[#otel-user-research](https://cloud-native.slack.com/archives/C01RT3MSWGZ) Slack
channel!

> She will also be presenting at OTel in Practice on June 8th. Details can be
> found [here](https://shorturl.at/bqtxO).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
She will also be presenting at [OTel in Practice on June 8th](https://shorturl.at/bqtxO).
```

## Final Thoughts

OpenTelemetry is all about community, and we wouldn’t be where we are without
our contributors, maintainers, and users. Hearing stories of how OpenTelemetry
is being implemented in real life is only part of the picture. We value user
feedback, and encourage all of our users to share your experiences with us, so
that we can continue to improve OpenTelemetry. ❣️

If you have a story to share about how you use OpenTelemetry at your
organization, we’d love to hear from you! Ways to share:

- Join the [#otel-endusers channel](/community/end-user/slack-channel/) on the
  [CNCF Community Slack](https://communityinviter.com/apps/cloud-native/cncf)
- Join our monthly
  [End Users Discussion Group calls](/community/end-user/discussion-group/)
- Join our [OTel in Practice sessions](/community/end-user/otel-in-practice/)
- Sign up for one of our
  [monthly interview/feedback sessions](/community/end-user/interviews-feedback/)
- Join the
  [OpenTelemetry group on LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/groups/14081251)

> - Share your stories on the
>   [OpenTelemetry blog](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry.io/blob/954103a7444d691db3967121f0f1cb194af1dccb/README.md#submitting-a-blog-post)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Share your stories on the
  [OpenTelemetry blog](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry.io/blob/main/README.md#submitting-a-blog-post)
```

---
title: 'End-User Q&A Series: Using OTel at Farfetch'
linkTitle: 'End-User Q&A: OTel at Farfetch'

> date: 2023-06-01

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
date: 2023-06-07
```

their first pieces in production.

They are not fully there yet:

- There is still a lot of reliance on Prometheus and Jaeger for generating
  metrics and traces, respectively
- Not all applications have been instrumented with OpenTelemetry

In spite of that, Iris and her team are leveraging the power of the
[OpenTelemetry Collector](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/collector/) to gather
and send metrics and traces to various Observability back-ends. Since she and
her team started using OpenTelemetery, they started instrumenting more traces.
In fact, with their current setup, Iris has happily reported that they went from
processing 1,000 spans per second, to processing 40,000 spans per second!

### How are you collecting your traces right now?

Traces are being collected through a combination of manual and auto
instrumentation.

Some applications are being manually instrumented through OpenTelemetry, and
others are still being instrumented using OpenTracing,
[which is backwards-compatible with OpenTelemetry](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/migration/opentracing/).

The OpenTelemetry Operator is being implemented to auto-instrument Java and .NET
code. The OTel Operator

> ([among other things](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/k8s-operator/#introduction)`)

Reviewer: Drop lost tick character (at least to fix the GH syntax highlighting :))

```suggestion
([among other things](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/k8s-operator/#introduction))
```
